## Autonomous-obstacle-avoidance-mobile-robot
#### Description:
A program that makes a mobile robot autonomously navigate down a corridor avoiding obstacles, exiting the corridor into an open space to search for a light (a lamp placed somewhere in the open space shining its light at the robot), autonomously moving towards the light to then neutralize the light by using the robots body to cover the light. 

_Program Language_: C++

#### Navigating down the corridor:
The mobile robot is equipped with an infrared sensor to measure the distance between itself and one of the walls of the corridor. The mobile robot is set to keep a desired distance of at least 30 cm away from the wall and uses a P-controller to regulate the speed of the mobile robot's wheels, affecting the direction the mobile robot is driving. If it approaches an obstacle that breaks the desired distance condition the mobile robot can effecitvely work its way around the obstacle without bumping into it or the corridor's walls. 

#### Searching for the light source and driving towards it:
The mobile robot is equipped with a photoresistor mounted on top of a servo motor and that is constantly sweeping searching for the light source. Once the light source is detected the servo motor's angular position is saved and is set as the desired position of the mobile robot. Taking this as the input and putting it through a P-controller that calculates the error between the desired angular position of the mobile robot and its actual position and outputs the dutycycles for the mobile motors motors, regulating the speed of the mobile robot to get it to turn towards the light source. 

#### Work flow:
The sequence of operations begins with the green LED flashing indicating that the program is uploaded and ready. Once the button is pushed the lynxbot begins to move down the corridor avoiding obstacles until the blocker is reached. The side sharp sensor is used to help navigate the lynxbot through the corridor. If the wall is detected to be too close, the lynxbot will turn away from the wall, if it detects the wall to be too far then it turns the lynxbot towards the wall, and if it is at a good distance the lynxbot continues its path. This sequence is followed until a blocker is reached. Once the front sharp sensor detects the blocker the lynxbot stops, and the motors remain stopped until the blocker is removed. When the blocker is removed, the lynxbot moves forward approximately 30 cm, to enter the open space where it will stop and begin its search for light. The servomotor is initially used to detect the light, and once the light is detected the lynxbot will turn to the direction of the light. The lynxbot will move forward towards the light with the servomotor constantly sweeping from 75 degrees to 105 degrees, adjusting the lynxbot on its way to the light. If the photoresistor detects light from 75 degrees to 89 degrees, the lynxbot will turn counter-clockwise. If the photoresistor detects light from 91 to 105 degrees, the lynxbot will turn clockwise. If the light is detected at 90 degrees, the lynxbot will continue straight. This sequence is followed until the photoresistor detects that the the light source is 20 cm away, and then the lynxbot stops, performs a 180-degree turn neutralizing the light, ending the program.
